# EnterpriseLib & Suoranta.WebApp
*If you are non-technical reader, WebApp and EnterpriseLib are toolkits for accelerated building and upgrading .NET-based enterprise applications. EnterpriseLib is the back-end toolkit primarily oriented towards ensuring overall application quality (access control, diagnostics, data integrity) and integration into relational data with minimal coding effort. Some of EnterpriseLib functionality is based on well-known open source packages. Skilled professionals might argue that EnterpriseLib offers in these respects limited added value. That's partly true: people who know these packages well get equivalent results with limited effort. EnterpriseLib is for the rest of us, including myself. In my mind, maintaining detailed knowledge is inconvenient. Besides, design flaws are extremely common and not immediately apparent. If the back-end in an existing system is hard to maintain or outright failing, EnterpriseLib is the ideal solution for getting quickly back on track.*

*WebApp is the front-end toolkit. WebApp is currently more oriented towards development of so-called multi-page MVC applications, which form the majority of existing enterprise web applications. This is also called server-side rendering (I won't go into nitty gritty details). Capabilities on building SPA applications based on new extensions of ECMAScript/HTML standards are, however, steadily expanding. New capabilities are independent of SPA application frameworks like React and Angular. I see no reason to support such as the current standards render their use unnecessary. WebApp enables gradual and graceful transformation of multi-page apps into standard-compliant SPA technology.*

 *EnterpriseLib is purely a back-end solution, hence it is agnostic about whether the back-end serves a multi-page app, standards-based SPA, or an app based on a JavaScript front-end framework. EnterpriseLib can be used without WebApp. WebApp is not strictly dependent on EnterpriseLib and there may be some use cases where one would deploy it stand-alone.*

 ## Introduction
 Though it remains fully supported part of .NET (Core and Framework), ASP.NET MVC is somewhat dated framework and many developers have moved into developing fully JavaScript-based (in all of its variations) single-page web applications (SPAs). Yet there are quite a few well-functioning MVC systems around. There are also no technological impediments to embedding SPA-style apps within what was originally an MVC application. In other words, ASP.NET MVC projects have all the back-end plumbing needed to support SPAs. MVC and SPA are just design patterns that make use of the same server-side infrastructure.

I think one of the reasons why MVC is seen outdated, at least when it comes to ASP.NET, is that its standard .NET implementation is terribly limited and based on outdated client library (I believe it is from around 2014). However, the architecture is fully extensible. You can even customize the Razor view engine to suit your needs. Frankly, I suspect that the idea was that developers would hook into this extensibility, but they never learned how to do that and instead came up with painful workarounds on top of the limited basic infrastructure. In other words, MVC has not been used to its full potential.

Suoranta.WebApp is my extension library to the ASP.NET MVC. It is an backward-compatible suite that upgrades the old client library and everything on top the of the Razor view engine. There is also a selection of widgets and variety of "TagHelpers" (ElementBuilder would be a more fitting name, but they derive from the original TagHelper) to build custom ones. Often needed script snippets can be defined in C# and handed over to enhanced WebViewPage to manage. This makes it possible to build, upgrade and maintain user-friendly web applications with much lesser effort than with standard MVC. Focus is especially on interactive input forms. WebApp is particularly useful when combined with Telerik UI (Kendo Widgets) for MVC as their integration into MVC is greatly enhanced (the standard Telerik package is, in my opinion, totally unsatisfactory in this respect).

## WebApp & SPAs
While WebApp is originally created to enhance server-side rendering capabilities of ASP.NET MVC, I have since designed an expanding JavaScript class library to enhance the development of client-side functionalities. These stand essentially on their own and could, in principle, be used without other WebApp components or even without ASP.NET itself. The client library builds upon and enhances latest additions to ECMAScript and HTML standards. Due to these enhancements, I feel that SPA frameworks like React or Angular are too instrusive and not really needed to build SPAs. Indeed, WebApp client library enhancements over the standard are straightforward and follow closely the design patterns of the traditional desktop UI libraries.

## Additional Features
- Real-time communication with clients (users). Example applications include group chat, display of real-time data from server, and collaborative editing.
- Support for multiple display languages.